Whether it's in this building or not, that's what has to be dealt with.
You know, maybe, well, if you really wanted a true Schaumburg... It had to have its own... Maybe it would be off-site.
Yeah.
You know, because Schaumburg's in Harlem.
I know.
Where its use is.
And that's... Yeah, but as you say, I mean, ambiance in that... I don't know where an appropriate place in San Francisco would be.
Not the places such as... But it wouldn't necessarily have to be in this.
No, it doesn't have to be, it wouldn't have to be here.
We haven't even, we have to get through what we've got before we can determine, in terms of the gay collections, we have to get through what we've got before we can determine.
Yeah, I mentioned to, he didn't know about it, to Steve Fulton, but you should, if you want to pursue this, Cornell has a remarkable collection that is essentially gay, lesbian, they call it the human sexuality collection.
It was largely donated by an exceedingly wealthy man, as his name escapes me right now, who's a Cornell alumnus.
And he gave the collection and, of course, a very generous endowment to not only to add to it, but to maintain it.
And that's another thing.
You need a curator.
You need somebody in charge.
That's right.
To go out and acquire, you need all this stuff.
I mean, it's not just the room and the books.
It's not just the room and the books and the cataloging, it's all the other stuff.
There is a people factor involved.
Yeah.
Yeah, but the Cornell thing, and I'll remember, I've got all the material on at home if you'd like, it's really something that's worth, and it's you can... Yeah, you know, I'll...
Is it called the Human Sexuality Collection?
I believe, yeah, but it's named after the film.
But it's the Human Sexuality.
You know Mark Dimunation at Cornell?
He's the head of special collections.
No.
He's a very, very nice man.
And he'd tell you in 22 seconds all about it and send you some information on it.
Okay.
But it's the kind of thing that you really, you know, if you're looking for it.
I don't know.
I mean, but it is primary stuff, too.
A lot of 50s stuff, a lot of...
pulp stuff, a little ephemeral stuff.
We've got quite a bit of that, too, but no real exhaustive stuff.
You know, it's what people have given us, what people have found, what they had in their own libraries.
But that's great stuff.
It is, but it's not exhaustive.
Jim Hormel has given us a lot of money for the gay and lesbian collections.
I was thinking in the back of my head when you said, you know, you need an angel for this.
He's been there.
He's probably the angel.
He's been the largest angel we have on that collection, yes.
You know, Nick, if you want to contact Jim by email, you have my email on the card.
And just instead of my name, just put Jim V. Jim V. At SFPL.
Okay, good.
And I have my computer with me.
Yeah, .ca.us.
No, SFPL.
It's on this thing.
Take another one if you want.
I get millions of these.
Yes, I'm going to call.
Do you mind if I shoot a picture of you?
No, not at all.
I'm a jack of all, a nick of all trades.
Most of the pictures in that book are short.
I'm so excited about this new book.
It's going to be fun, man.
City Hall right behind me, all under construction?
Yeah, that's nice.
I trick it to make sure I don't get too much— Too much glare, yeah.
Too much glare.
So I'm going to do one available light like that.
I think you should do a flash.
And I'm going to do the flash, but I'm really getting the reading a few of the silly shadows.
Okay.
Susan Goldstein is going to show you.
And then you don't mind if I kind of wander around and talk to people?
No, I don't mind.
We do have to have you escorted when you're down in Brooks Hall, though.
I was going to take you down myself, but I don't have time this morning.
Yeah.
Oh, those old ones where you do it yourself.
Yeah, but where you do the explosions.
You said you're a book person, you love books.
You said, take a look at the Berkeley Library.
What did you say?
Oh, that's the way I have defined that poor old place.
She's a 65-year-old woman who's dressed as too tight.
That's the way I've always described it.
Books coming out of your ears, books coming out of your eyes.
It's everywhere.
My house is filled with them.
I probably have 4,000 books at home.
Really?
Yep.
Are you a collector?
No, I'm a reader.
I use the library a lot, and I always have three or four books I'm reading at a time, because if I get tired of one, I switch to another one.
But sometimes I decide I have to own it.
There's one that came out that I had to own that was like a history of inventions, and I just loved it.
It was a cultural history.
I can't remember the title.
I used to remember authors and titles.
Now my brain's not holding it.
It was published about three or four years ago.
And this is like a reference book.
I think I know the book.
I sat and read this damn book.
Is this by Petrosky?
Yes, I think so.
He also did the book of a pencil, which I thought was.
The history of the pencil.
Think about that.
Well, I get intrigued by David McCauley's things, too.
I just interviewed him last week.
He's fascinating.
My wife and I went to see him.
I write a weekly book column that I've syndicated in about 25 or so newspapers.
Did you read Motel of the Mysteries?
I loved that.
I think it was wonderful.
Well, did you read A Canticle from Leibowitz?
Yes, I did.
Well, that's kind of, you know, this...
You know, the sacred text is bring home the soul.
Exactly, exactly.
So I read everything.
I don't read much science fiction, but I do read some.
I love historical fiction.
I don't like murder mysteries, but I'll read them because if I want something fast.
I'll even read such non-female authors as Tom Clancy.
You know, it goes on and on.
I like the procedural stuff.
I really like Patricia Cornwall.
I like her.
She's good.
Not the one, the newest one, not the one before this.
She took off on a new character and it wasn't happily as good.
I like Jan Grisham.
I like Plum.
Did you?
You really do like the trash.
Oh, yeah.
Hey.
That's, I'm sorry, that's a critical.
Commercial fiction.
Well, I love Dutch Leonard.
Yeah?
He's as commercial as they get.
Hi, Susan.
Hello.
Have you met Nicholas Besbane?
No.
Hi.
This is Susan Goldstein.
Hi, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you, too.
I was going to take Nicholas down to take a look at the material in Brooks Hall, but I didn't have time.
So if you could do that.
Sure.
And also, I think you'd like to see the archives from the gay and lesbian material.
So if you have 45 minutes or so, I appreciate that a lot.
Thank you.
Okay, the gay and lesbian manuscript.
Just for the tape.
I'm Susan Goldstein of San Francisco History Center, San Francisco Public Library.
The gay and lesbian manuscripts come through our room.
So the gay and lesbian center is made up of many kinds of materials, books, periodicals, and those are all serviced down on the appropriate floor.
And because we have the archives and manuscripts here, people come here to use those materials.
In this room right here.
Can you show me this?
Yeah, we have higher security here.
Well, I hope so.
And we also have archivists on staff who know how to arrange and describe the manuscripts.
Number two pencils, I gather.
What?
As opposed to... Yes.
No pens.
So this is San Francisco History.
Oh, this is nice.
Which is a research area.
Lovely.
And we have some study rooms over here.
You know, there's desks that are facing forward, like our most research libraries.
You can see everybody.
What's that little thing over there?
The microphone reader.
Oh, this.
It's a little momentary.
Oh, I see.
And then we also are digitizing here.
Do you know about that?
No.
Good talk.
I've given the whole day to this.
We are digitizing a few of our collections.
This is a sheet music collection.
I'm going to go back.
And we have a large historic photograph collection here.
So we are starting to digitize that.
And then also the game was being pulped.
We've digitized a lot of their covers.
Very interesting.
So we've worked a little bit with UC Berkeley, but we have our own in-house staff here that's doing it.
What's the site on this?
Is there something I can access from?
No.
It's on standalone, and it's not hooked up to the Internet yet.
It's called the San Francisco Digital Library.
There's little presentations on all the centers.
You could sit and put on earphones, and it would talk about the San Francisco Center, or the African American Center, or the Stegner Environmental Center.
For me to want to look at this, I have to come into this room to do this?
Well, no, they're on all the floors of the library, and they want to put them in the branches.
But I think rather than putting their energy into having a standalone in a branch, they might want to put it into having a
be compatible with the Internet.
So, you know, that's an interesting decision.
I don't know why they went with a standalone.
They should have thought about Internet connectivity.
They changed their mind.
Who's Dorothy Starr, S-T-A-R-R-I?
She's a woman who collected... So this is her collection, largely?
Well, she used it.
No.
This is my puppet.
That's the beauty of it.
You have to hold it.
S-T-E-I-N, right.
What's your title, Susan?
Oh, you're the City Archivist.
Okay.
You've got a lot of materials over in Brooks Hall.
We do.
Yeah.
And you're showing me the San Francisco Digital Library.
Do you have an idea of how many photographs there are in the collection?
There's about 4,000 in here, but we have...
Really?
4,000 scanned, about 100,000 in the collection?
And these are largely from Dorothy Starz?
No, no, no.
Dorothy Starz is a different collection.
That's sheet music.
And that's being done by the art and music department downstairs.
This is the San Francisco Historic Photograph Collection.
I see.
Here's our photo curator.
And we have our photo store in a separate room.
That's a lot of photos.
Is it negatives, too, or is it... There's negatives.
Glass plates, too.
Do you have adequate space for them?
For the photos, we do.
And this room, again, we're in, is called the... Oh, that would be good.
Good.
Yeah, okay.
So we have all the city records here that we have.
They're not collected very systematically in the city.
That's part of my job.
Do you have a card, by the way?
Yeah, I do.
Give me some card.
I'll give you mine.
Good, thanks.
Okay.
Uh-huh.
Sure.
So most of our books are in the back.
You have a small collection out there.
That's, you know, these are all limited access things.
Yeah.
There's also a collection of book art.
Mm-hmm.
You might want to talk about stuff later.
Okay.
It's a lovely room.
Great.
I'll take everything.
I'll have to take notes.
Right.
I have, yeah.
All right, let's go down.
You want to see where they get?
Let me get the keys.
Come with you?
Yeah.
Okay.
Where are we now?
Back in the house, and I'll be right back.
Okay, stay right here.
Yeah.
You and I have met.
I bought your book.
We're at the Tablepan Aquarium.
Oh, I have one.
We're very proud of this.
We're here.
Thank you.
I'm the manager of all the programs.
Uh-huh.
Good.
Hi, my friends.
Good to meet you.
Pleasure to be here.
You know Andrea?
I know Andrea, yeah.
Hi, Andrea, how are you?
Good.
Nice to see you.
You too.
We just did, and we're going to go on a little tour.
Let's take me down to Brooks Hall.
I'm excited to see it.
I'm going to go to M43.
M?
Yes.
Okay, M43.
I'd like to... Okay, good.
Yeah, I'd like to... Nice to meet you.
Thanks.
Okay, and these are... What do we call these kinds of shelving?
Compact.
Compact shelving.
You're going to feel like burning.
Are you?
No.
But I love librarians, so they're the heroes of this new book.
So nice to hear.
Believe it.
Oh, look, my goodness.
Did you have some cards cataloged?
Oops, I'm sorry.
Yeah, special collections really, they're the last to go when it comes to card catalogs.
And they're the last to get put online because we knew such kind of in-depth catalogs.
We may have until, sorry, we may have until 10.30 to get over to the locked case section of Brooks Hall.
We keep it open from about 10 to 10.30.
Okay.
It's 10.30.
Maybe I can call engineers and ask me to keep it open a little longer.
Yeah, I mean, we'll make it down by then.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah, I did want to see that.
Yeah.
So are you a librarian?
Well, I'm an archivist, but yeah, I go to library school.
Now, where did you go to library school?
Really?
So what do you, yeah.
From where?
California woman?
Yeah, but I'm born in California.
So where did you go to college?
To Brown.
I live very close to Brown.
Oh, you do?
I live in Central Mass, which is very close.
We work right next to Worcester, a town called Grafton.
It's about 45 minutes from Providence.
I was close to Providence as I am to Boston.
Providence really changed.
I went back two years ago for a reunion.
Yeah.
I mean, I think it's a really exciting program for what it is.
There's no archives or books.
There's none of that anymore.
So, you know, what does that mean?
Who's the director over there, if you know offhand?
Boy, his name.
I know he's an economics professor, and I'm blanking on his name.
Yeah, I'll find out tomorrow.
I've been in the whole day over there.
I really haven't done any research yet on a library school other than Columbia, which was the great, you know, the original one is gone.
You know, my feeling is,
Berkeley, the system put pressure on the library school to reinvent itself in this way, you know, or else they would have just cut it out.
As Columbia did.
Yeah.
Terry Melanger said, you know, I said, why?
He said, it's not a cash cow.
I mean, like law schools, a lot of money in law schools.
And the alumni, we don't donate as much as other people do.
And, you know, it's what goes on down the line.
But did you value from Columbia?
You're a young woman.
What prompted you to go to the library school?
Well, I loved archives and manuscripts.
I mean, I probably, I mean, I like being a historian, but, you know, I loved archives and manuscripts, and that's why.
And I knew I wanted to do archives when I went to library school.
It wasn't like I discovered it there.
So what did they teach you at library school that was useful, that helped you in this job?
Well, there was actually a great archive course.
That's history, right?
That's history, right.
That's history anymore.
And where did you graduate?
I graduated in 18th.
Okay.
Now we're walking, we're in the bowels of the new library, or are we actually kind of in a... Now we're at the loading dock.
Still in the... So we're about to pass into Brooks Hall, which is kind of pretty gay.
Okay, but it does connect, right?
Oh, yeah.
It's great that it connects.
It's wonderful.
And how to connect.
As I said to Gina, I said, you're damn lucky you have a bookshelf.
Yeah, but we don't have it yet.
I mean, we don't have a solid.
I know that you have it even here.
Never mind that you wrote it.
Yeah, we do.
Yeah, it's great.
So physically it is connected.
Oh, yeah.
It's very easy to come down here and page things.
I have a little different perspective because I worked in university libraries.
A lot of people here are very upset about having to even go this far to page.
Mm-hmm.
You know, at Berkeley, we used to have to go off-site to Richmond.
We're going to go in here.
So to me, this is... I don't mind.
Also, manuscripts, a lot of researchers know they might have to wait overnight to get their collection.
So I think I'm a little bit of an anomaly in the public library system, because... This is the old car catalog.
Are you going to mind if I take a few photographs?
No.
Okay.
I'm sure you told me we were going to.
Yes, I did, and I've got my camera, took some pictures of her, and...
You can just talk.
Okay.
There's a car catalog.
It's brought over.
I'll just put this someplace.
We are now physically in Brooks Hall, right?
I keep losing.
You see, I'm trying to take pictures.
Take notes.
Okay.
Should we go over to where they're... You want to go over where they're going to close right now?
Yeah, we're here.
Oh, this is the closed... So what do we call this?
This is the closed, the locked case?
Is that what this is?
Yeah, we have a catalog room.
We don't really have a real name.
Uh-huh.
It's a very small part of the catalog.
Is this what, like the rare books would be in here?
No.
Not rare books, but... Okay, the last two books, which are down here, are books that will work in a lot of people.
Okay.
Now, are there still cards in these catalogs?
It's just not indicated.
Okay.
Here they are.
If people come across the floor, it's just from down there.
Okay, this helps me write as much as anything else, by the way.
And what we're doing now is testing down here for temperature and humidity for all the changes we need to to make it a better environment for the book.
You know, it only took us about three minutes to get here.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, this is... Yeah, no, I think it's very convenient.
This is not as it could be, you know?
No, it's wonderful that we have this.
We just need to, you know, clean it up and make it a better environment for these books.
These are lock case books.
Most of these are from Humanities.
How do you feel about that, by the way?
Well, I wasn't here when that happened.
You're going to have to talk to someone else about the drafting of the subject department.
It's not something I have a lot of opinions about.
It happened a long time before I came.
Luck case.
What does it mean, luck case?
These were older, rarer books, and they were lost, and people had to ask for them.
And that's why they're down here.
Mexico as it was and as it is by Mayer.
Pictures of Life in Mexico by Mason, two volumes.
We're actually in history right now, the 900s.
How many books would you say there are in here?
Again, I don't know.
You have to ask the third floor staff.
I'm just going to put this down.
Go ahead.
You can talk.
You can just hold this while you talk because what you say is more important.
Okay.
So these were Lockheed's reference books, basically.
But you don't know how many people?
No, I don't know.
So you should ask the third floor staff.
I mean, you can see...
It's not all... It's from here to here, basically.
There's not that many.
This is another collection.
This is the McComas Science Fiction Collection.
McComas.
It must have been the name of the... Yeah, it's a special collection of science fiction.
Probably Mr. McComas.
I don't know.
But again, you should ask the third floor staff.
So this is all down here.
Okay.
And...
People have to request it at the paging desk.
You keep losing your tag.
Let me give it to you.
I don't want security to pounce on you.
Sorry.
You know what?
Just stick it in your pocket, and then you can pull it out and show it to them.
I realize this is a minor detail.
No, it's not minor.
I'm going to put this paperwork in the bag, too.
Yeah.
I don't have that much else to say about these books.
As they shift books upstairs, they're trying to make room for these to go.
These won't go out on the floor because they were in locked cases before.
They'll only ever go in the back stacks upstairs.
I work in a collection that's all referenced, and most of our collection is locked.
You're really going to have to talk to some other people.
Some people feel very strongly that more of their books should be out on the floor.
for patrons to browse, and I have a different perspective for my collection.
Yeah, it's okay.
It's okay.
I would just stick it in your pocket.
Don't even put it on.
It's just going to fall off.
You can see the way I'm working here.
I'm always going to be knocking things off.
And then here's gift books that are waiting.
You know, librarians are going to look at them and decide if they're going to add them to the collection.
It's nothing.
That's science fiction.
And there's a person on the third floor who has responsibility for it.
You might want to talk to him about it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um...
Oh, is that yours?
Okay.
These are books that are going to be discarded in here.
So there's a discard room.
And then these are... These here are discards?
Well, behind this wooden door.
Okay.
In here.
This step too?
These might be, or else they're waiting for the adopt-a-book program to get started again.
There's a lot of, like, old editions.
Well, you can see what's here.
Yeah.
So a lot of these are waiting for adopt-a-book.
These are the classics.
Yeah, but, you know, again, now, I'm not the person over this, so you might want to talk.
I can tell you who to talk to.
How about these old books here?
These are not.
These are waiting on book trucks, and I'm not sure for what.
Different departments have different materials down here for different reasons.
So...
Those are not, I don't think those are for, these are not, for example, for discard.
These are, oh, the Commonwealth Club.
I have to come back and look at that.
Sometimes when I find things down here that I think are appropriate for our collection, I contact that department and ask if I can transfer it.
These are runs of periodicals that, yeah, these are just runs of periodicals.
What does that mean?
What's going on?
I've only had this panel for years until school repair.
Okay, so here's runs of periodicals out here, and then down here you're going to have a lot of periodicals, all the way down.
This is cavernous.
Yeah, it is, but we only have part of it.
You'll see.
We only have half of it.
This used to be an exhibition hall.
Yeah, it was.
Right, yeah.
They had conventions here and conferences.
Can I just pause for a second and take a couple of minutes?
Yeah.
Were you ever down here?
No, no.
This is the first time.
I mean, in a way, it's nice.
It's got electricity.
It's got, you know, hookups.
It's got, it needs to be cleaned up, but it's got stuff.
I mean, there's acreage here.
Oh, yeah.
I like it down here.
Yeah.
This is all library stuff, right?
No.
Over there, I think the opera... We'll walk around.
I think they still have it.
First, when we came in, Moscone Center had some space, and now I think the opera does, or the symphony.
I think the opera.
Okay.
Reserve for recon.
What does that mean?
These are books that staff needed to go all the way back through them and enter bibliographic records for them.
So what does recon mean, though?
Um...
Recon is when you go back and put books into DRA, into the database, that were not put into the database.
I see.
So like at Berkeley, they did a huge recon project and put all their old books into the database.
And these books are part of the collection?
Yes.
But they're books that there weren't records for them.
So now that they're through recon, staff needs to come downstairs and see which ones they want to keep in the collection and which ones they don't.
You can keep talking.
I don't have much to say about it.
This is like the guy that plays the harmonica and the... Yeah.
This is how I work.
The fiddle at the same time.
Yeah.
I like to document things.
So, recon.
You know, a lot of libraries have recon departments now.
People try to get grants to do recon work.
This is done, and I think it's waiting for the subject selectors and departments to come down and look at their areas.
I have been through here.
as has Andrea, looking for stuff for our collections.
Okay.
Coming in here looking for stuff that... I think mine might want in San Francisco history.
Really?
Okay.
Let me just take a shot here.
Yeah, I went through this row by row.
You did?
Yeah.
Did you find anything?
Yeah, although a lot of the books that were here, we already had copies of in our collection.
Some old books on San Francisco history.
You know, some we didn't have yet.
Thanks.
Yeah.
I know that...
Special Collections found some books.
You really should talk to Andrea because she found some rare books down here.
Or old books.
What's a rare book?
Old books that were printed in the 1700s, 1800s, early American imprints.
Okay.
These are the periodicals.
These are the periodicals that did not fit upstairs.
Okay?
And so this is periodical stuff has to come down and page these.
There's a lot of discussion about these.
We have a new periodicals committee that met last week for the first time about how to handle all these.
Do we want Canadian Journal of Soil Science from the 60s, or do we want it maybe to go to an academic library that's local?
Canadian Journal of Soil Science, 1967 to 84.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight lines.
Yeah.
So they paged, you know, you should talk to magazine and newspaper staff, but they paged...
periodicals down here every day.
They come down and do a run.
It's pretty extensive.
You can see all the way down.
I just pulled up two journals for our collection.
One of them I love.
What is it called?
Pacific Progressive.
It's all about the progressive movement and it runs from like 1900 to 1915.
It's all the progressive movement on the West Coast.
It's transferred into San Francisco history now.
So,
Wow.
Yeah.
Okay.
These are.
Oh, I'm guessing for the sake of the tape here.
How much footage?
Yeah, I'd say that's about 100 yards, maybe 80.
You think so?
Oh, yeah.
That's the size of a football field.
Well, hard to say.
Actually, I know the measurements of these cubes, actually.
It's 48 feet.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
I don't know if you'd call these alcoves or whatever.
Well, this is... Just hold that.
I'll take some time.
These squares are 48 by 48.
What squares?
See where that... There's a line here.
Okay.
This is that line.
And then there should be another line right around here.
What do you call this area that we're in now?
Do you call it anything?
No, just a periodical section of Brooks.
These are all periodic?
Yes.
I will show you where the city archives are.
We're not there yet.
Okay, there's a chain-link fence.
This is unbelievable.
I'm so used to it.
Carol, let's walk down the side of it.
Okay, yeah.
Wow.
Here.
Thanks.
Wow.
How about books that were, books that were discarded and that were dumped?
Were they here?
Is this where they were?
No, I think, again, I wasn't... That's fine.
I'm not putting you on the spot.
I'm not quoting you.
No, I think most of the books were readed from the old building.
I think they were gone.
They never got here.
Right, they never got here.
I see.
So...
So these are basically books that are in the collection.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
These are books that are in the collection.
So these squares, you see what I mean?
It goes to these columns.
There's like little lines.
Okay.
That's 48 by 48.
So... 48 feet by 48 feet, right?
Mm-hmm.
So I was right.
So that's 50, 100, 150.
It's about 200 feet.
There's another one.
There's about four of them.
So that's 200 feet.
200 feet.
Almost all football field is 300 feet.
I don't even know.
Okay.
Okay, this area, so this bay down here, these are all periodicals.
This area belongs to different subject departments.
Mm-hmm.
Okay?
And they haven't moved over all these boxes at the end, and they haven't yet, yet a secondary move.
After the initial move, all this stuff was left in the old library.
I love the little trunk.
Go ahead, this is great.
Yeah.
So we moved all this stuff over later, a year after we opened.
Okay.
Uh-huh.
And the staff has not had time.
We're very short-staffed upstairs because we've lost people, you know, to attrition.
So we haven't had time to put stuff away.
I asked her about that.
It's recording.
I haven't lost one yet.
Knock on wood.
This is art and music staff.
And each bay is a different compartment.
Okay, art music stops.
These are general collections.
These are gift books that the librarians use.
Oh, there's some music scores.
There's music scores.
There's tons of boxes of music scores.
From that collection?
Yeah, Dorothy Stars here.
Dorothy Stars here?
Oh, God.
Some things are just... Wait.
This is my section.
That's for laughs.
Some things just present themselves to you, don't they, huh?
Come on now.
Isn't that great?
We found that when we were... Oh, that's great.
This is your section.
Yes.
That's the demarcation line.
There's an actual line?
Well, it's just a thing in the... The Brooks Hall.
Oh, that's great.
Okay.
That is, that is great.
First we hang it out on the gate up there, we walk in on the chicken wire, but it wouldn't, it's, it's heavy.
I'll bet it's, it's solid brass.
Right here, here's the lighting center.
Okay.
That'll come in, that the librarian mentioned, you can compose, and see what's in here.
Brooks Hall.
sign as the demarcation line for your department.
Well, this line in the ground is really... Right.
Look at these beautiful old... Yeah, we brought these from our... And then the door to the store... All right, and this is government documents.
And our area ends right behind the filing cabinet.
That's storage.
And this is storage for library staff.
Now, we did save and bring over a lot of the old furniture.
This is the rare books from in the library.
These are display cases or storage cases.
Yeah, it was really difficult to move.
They're beautiful.
But we insisted they bring them over.
They're wonderful.
And we're going to put supplies in our books or something.
Well, you're going to leave them down here.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I'll take a picture of that.
And this is old storage for library staff.
Are you familiar with my book?
You know, I, I, I, no, I don't know.
Well, that's fine.
That's fine.
All I'm saying is that if... Yeah, I have to read it now.
No, because... I didn't realize you were the person I was meeting with today or I could have done my homework.
There's a method to my madness, you see.
I just try and get everything.
I document everything.
Well, eight years, I mean, in that case.
Oh, this is wonderful stuff, huh?
What did you do before you wrote that book?
I've been a book critic for 20 years.
Oh, you went for in Boston?
In Worcester, but I'm syndicated in 25 newspapers now.
Unfortunately, none here, but I've been hoping to change that.
And now doing a children's book column, which is...
It's been picked up by some really big papers.
Really?
Orlando and San Antonio, Denver, I hope, Knoxville.
I was in about two million circulation in the kids' books.
Old furniture we brought over.
That's the old library commissioner's table that we brought over.
That used to be in our history room across the street.
Really?
So why didn't they keep it, I wonder?
Everything was modern in the new building.
I'd take those any day of the year to tell you the truth.
I'm going to take a picture of you, if you mind.
Mike tour guy.
Your turn, guys.
Yes.
Here he comes.
See, we had artists back in our collection.
We had this huge area in the old building called the Morgue.
It was a disgusting, horrible area.
Well, that's a good, that's a very reputable newspaper.
So now we have, now we have what we call the Morgue again for us.
Okay.
So we have stuff like, this is an old street painting.
This is a great picture, by the way.
You can get in the picture.
I like you in the picture.
Go ahead.
Keep talking.
Okay.
We have other artifacts here.
You do?
Yeah.
This is a safe, a lurid safe.
And then what you're going to see is a lot of production.
Okay, this area, our area stops here.
This is all the opera.
This is no longer the library.
Right, and this ramp goes up into Bill Graham Civic Auditorium.
Okay.
And I've actually been promised that it would be locked.
Oh, it is.
The gate is down.
You know, of course, we would like at least all the space we have and even more, which I guess Gina is now going to bat for.
But it's very political.
Other city departments want this space.
Oh, I think so.
The mayor wanted, there was going to be a computer museum.
Bill Maher wanted it to park cars in.
I mean, even since I've been here.
And what did you call this thing again?
This is a street sanitation, street sweeper outfit.
I don't know what it's like that you call it.
San Francisco cleaning.
Oh, that's great.
Household garbage.
We don't have a lot of artifacts.
You know, we try only to collect paper documents, but we do have some.
Well, they're all part of the texture of the city, you know.
Yeah.
There's a museum of the city of San Francisco with the woman who's archivist for many years left and started.
And these are what?
These are old newspapers, San Francisco Bulletin.
I see.
Most of them we have on Microsoft, but I do the process of checking to make sure before we moved them.
And some of these...
Some of these are in really horrible condition, and they're not worth keeping anymore.
And there's something at Berkeley called the California Newspaper Project, and they're doing a survey of all the old newspapers in the state.
You should contact the American Antiquarian Society in Worcester, which has the finest.
It's even greater than the Library of Congress.
Well, this might go past their cutoff.
This won't go.
They go up to 1876, but they come forward a lot further with the West.
Yeah.
I might just tell them, sis, that bulletin.
These are nice for education.
I don't know about that, but I think they're great for kids to come in and look at primary sources.
I'm going to tell Ellen Dunlap, who's the librarian there.
If she's interested, she'll leave you a call.
She must go to the FAA meeting.
Oh, they're huge.
You've heard of the American Aquarius Society.
That's one of the great, great... Okay, this is the Examiner Clipping Morgue.
Okay, all these file cabinets.
Mm-hmm.
How come it's not at the examiner?
They gave it to us.
Wow, they must have digitized it.
They cut off to it, and I can't remember what it is, but in the 70s maybe.
So, and upstairs we have the call bulletin photograph morgue, which gets used a lot.
That's important stuff.
Yes.
And there's not an index to the Examiner.
There is an index to the Chronicle.
Really?
There's not an index to the Examiner.
So you need to come down and pull things when people want them.
Yeah, I mean, I've worked in newspapers, you know.
That's the way it is.
There are no indexes.
No.
Okay, these are collections we brought over.
These are the Civil Service Commission.
Mm-hmm.
They're ledgers.
They go back to 1960 now.
These are from the 30s.
Mm-hmm.
And we score these here.
Civil Service turned over about 85 years of their stuff to us.
And we do get calls for things sometimes.
So we do have papers.
These are from Department of Public Works.
This is from City Engineer.
These are all collections that archivists need to work on.
We haven't had any time, but, you know, these are really interesting.
This is an archaeological dig.
Really?
Done at the site.
Before they could build the library, you know, you have to do digs.
And these are some of the things that were pulled up.
This is probably a capital from a... This might be from the old city hall that was on this site before it fell in the earthquake.
Some of these things.
And there's some stuff in our exhibit.
There's spoons and poems and things like that.
This is wax from Art Agnes' collection.
So we have some mayoral papers here.
God.
You know, I believe I went to college with Art Agnos.
Did you?
Where?
At Bates College in Maine.
Oh, in Maine?
Yeah.
I believe it was the same.
How many Art Agnoses can there be in the world?
I'm pretty sure it is, because I ran into a guy I knew.
He was a football player.
Did you know that Agnos was the mayor of San Francisco?
Very funny.
These are like the Department of Public Works, like I was showing you.
But they're very interesting.
Hunters Point and Alameda Naval Base sites, 1920.
There's stuff in here I would love to get in and organize.
You know, it takes years to make these collections ready for the public.
Look at that, though.
Isn't that wonderful?
Oh, that's fascinating.
Yeah, I mean, look at them building ships.
I was over there in the 60s.
Oh, I love these stuff.
My ship was actually in one of these dry docks.
Here's an excavation for a dry dock.
Your ship?
Oh, your stationery.
I was a public affairs officer on an aircraft carrier.
Oh, that's a lot of musical people get there.
I worked for Senator Cranston.
Oh, is that right?
And he, it was interesting because I did his pre-senatorial stuff back to Office of War Information, OWI, when he was there and some of the stuff he did.
So you worked in Washington?
Yes.
Oh, good.
Dumbarton Bridge.
I mean, 1920 to 1922.
There's, I think, a goldmine of stuff in here.
This came to us pretty recently, right before the library moved.
And this is,
To me, this should be the meat and potatoes of our collection that we are able to work on.
Do you have material, in your view, at research depth?
Let me preface this by saying that Gina does not believe that a public library like San Francisco, its function is to be a research library, with the possible exception of local history.
I think the local history section should be research depth, and we do.
There's California Historical Society, which is right near us, and they have a lot of important collections.
And there's the Bancroft, and they have a lot of important collections.
There's the Labor Archives.
I used to work there at San Francisco State.
They have a lot of union papers, which are important.
But we have some mayoral papers, and especially we need to really focus on getting the city department papers.
That should be our charge.
We should be the city archives.
The stuff shouldn't be going to Berkeley anymore.
or to CHS, to a private institution.
I've got to take a picture of Art Agnos.
It's black.
I'll show it to Art.
Am I able to get in touch with him?
I knew him, you know.
Well, you have his wife on the library commission.
Is that right?
He's one of the library commissioners, if you're going to talk to them.
I'd probably not.
I talked to Steve Coulter.
That's enough.
Without any comment, let's just leave it at that.
One commissioner would have... Would you think so?
Yeah, he's pretty interesting.
He is.
And we just, this was not conceived of in the original move.
We had a plan for this whole secondary move.
We had ripped out this old shelving from our morgue, you know, well old shelving, moved it over, and I'm starting to put collections on here as they come in.
This is all campus historically.
So, um, this is campus, civil service.
put off my machine.
I worked in the Gernstein photography collection.
How old are you?
That was before library school.
I'm 38.
I worked there just for about eight months.
Read my HRC.
That's the best chapter.
You know their conservation lab and everything.
Take a look at my book.
I'm reading it tonight.
There are definitely city records.
There are different kinds of vital records.
There are naturalization records, quoting records, block and street maps, American citizens.
Which aren't necessarily the things you'd find in a public library.
I guess maybe so.
Some public libraries have local history rooms in that.
Let me just say, there's not a city archives.
If the city of San Francisco had set up some kind of records management and archives program, it would be different.
But it hasn't been.
And this department has always collected these on an ad hoc basis.
I'm the first archivist they've had here, you know.
Probably ever.
Well, no, Gladys, you know, was here for many years and builds up the collection.
Gladys who?
Hansen.
She's very famous.
She's still alive?
Oh, yeah.
She runs the Museum of the City of San Francisco.
Gladys Hanson.
H-A-N-S-O-N?
S-E-N, I think.
Your predecessor?
Yes.
And she really built this collection.
But she didn't organize collections according to archival practices.
And she didn't systematically go after city records.
As you do.
Well, as I'm trying to do.
So...
You know, we need to figure out our mission in the library.
Do they really want me to do that before I go out and bring in... If I'm not going to get support from the administration for doing it, do I have to step in here?
That's right.
Now, this is a great place to take your picture once more, okay?
These are deeds.
This is nice.
And these deeds go back... Some of them go back to the 1850s.
I mean, some of these are some of the oldest records we have in the city.
So...
Well, I love this stuff.
This stuff is great.
I get excited by things, you know.
Well, I mean, when you read my book, I mean, the gentle madness describes me, too, you know.
And I'm just frustrated that we can't, we don't have the time to come down here and work on these and make them, you know, we need to do, we need to enter stuff in the computer and make lists and, you know, all that stuff.
Um...
Mayor's certificates are on microfilm in the city registrar's office.
We deal with the people there.
We need to coordinate all the microfilming so we know what we don't need to do.
If you get this as a permanent space, one wonders if you'd ever allow readers down here.
We take readers down now.
In fact, someone was going to come in at 1030 to do research.
People can make an appointment, and I am...
Me or someone on staff will take them down.
Definitely, because they need access to this stuff.
That's the way to do it.
No, we need to give access.
Because you can't have somebody... People use these... I know, I have a little face mask.
People use these...
We have house researchers in all the time, building researchers, people doing environmental impact statements.
They come in to you.
I wrote a picture of this.
It says Ken Carpenter at Harvard.
I love the smell myself.
We're going through Widener, and I said, ah, I love that.
But unfortunately, it's the smell of decaying books.
You're going to try and capture the smell on camera?
That's a great picture.
I just love all the spines.
Yeah.
And we, wow, clean.
We got, I can't tell you how.
We made a movie real time.
Yeah.
In the mood.
It was a nightmare.
I think I spent a year moving.
I've only been here two years, and a year of it was a nightmare.
So you actually came in, you worked in the Old Main.
For six months.
And we closed.
And then you were here.
What was it like to be here while all that stuff was going on?
In the Old Main?
When the story broke about the books being... It was...
And I won't quote you directly on this.
I won't attribute it to you, but I'm just curious.
I think it was just confusing because no one really knew what was going on.
I mean, I didn't know.
I wasn't here.
I guess the weeding had started even earlier, after the 89 earthquake, and then weeding before the move.
We don't weed in our collection, so I kind of was learning a new job.
I wasn't paying attention to what was happening on other floors, and so I was just surprised.
You were shocked?
Yes.
I wasn't shocked.
I don't know what happened.
I know there's normal weeding that wasn't done for many years that people needed to do.
And I don't know what was over weeded.
Do you know what I'm saying?
It's very hard for me.
But there's no list of things that went off.
No, although I did walk down and look at Adopt-a-Book and books that were put out.
Oh, I agree.
You know, stuff that needed to be weeded.
I saw some stuff.
If someone shows you a book, it doesn't mean we don't have it at all.
Okay, but I think fully 8% of the, now this is worthwhile, are last copies in the system.
So that's, and Nick Baker has a list of 19,000 last books in the system.
Yeah, you know, if there's a book on, some last copies aren't worth keeping.
Probably so.
You know, they're not literature.
They're not, you know, I care for the 1970s.
That's quite a statement to make.
Well, and I'm a person who cares about old things in history.
But anyway, you don't keep one copy of every book just because it was published.
L.C.
doesn't either.
I don't know what happened.
I was surprised.
And also the lack of space was surprising as we started filling the library and it only became apparent as we started moving that stuff wasn't going to fit.
That was kind of surprising.
Made people anxious to say the least.
Yeah.
And we realized in our department, like you have to remember, none of this was moved in the initial move.
It was all left in the old building.
This was only moved this past April.
Which stuff?
All the SF history, all the morgue, all these shelves, all these deeds.
We used to go to the old building for a year to page this stuff.
No one had planned for this stuff to come to this building.
So what were they going to do with it?
I have no idea.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know if they thought it would fit or they thought we wouldn't really need it and we would give it up when the time came.
And I wasn't here, so you need to ask other people.
But I know people in the department will say, they told them and they told them and they told them.
And I didn't believe them, you know.
So... This is good.
Thank you.
Yeah.
And I'll take you upstairs.
I'm going to take you where the game I've seen some of our collections are.
And some of our other collections.
Great.
So...
That was Brooks Hall.
Okay.
I fill up so many of these.
This is the record.
This hall used to be the one I read with.
There was no other place for them.
The whole hall.
In this hall, yeah.
So with the hiring of new staff, you think it's kind of calmed down a little bit?
Oh, yeah.
It's a huge difference in labor.
Yeah.
She said, yeah, 25 or 40 or something like that.
So you can see it.
Yeah, actually, they're going to go to 40.
Oh, no, it makes a difference.
It's a huge difference.
With the back of the auditorium downstairs, you know, in the department, you can get it.
I mean, they have some amazing things in art and music.
They really have an incredible collection that has wonderful things like that.
Those are souvenir programs from 1909.
It was really kind of a manuscript thing.
And then this is all San Francisco history over here.
You've got a lot of responsibility.
Mm-hmm.
You like it?
Yeah, we're very short-staffed.
But you're happy here?
Well, I spend about four hours a day on the reference desk, which is not what I thought when I came here.
But yeah, we just... But you're in San Francisco, which is nice.
No, it's great.
And it's a great...
It has a lot of potential.
Well, that's a very hopeful statement, isn't it?
Yeah, it does.
It is.
This is, uh, see this part area.
Kim?
Since the game has been in our office.
Uh-huh.
Now, in archives, do you need big tables to work on?
Because that's how you do a collection, but more work is designed to go into this new building.
So we kind of raised... What was not designed then?
A space to do a collection.
Yeah, we have fun about archives.
I wasn't here when the building was planned.
So how things you need to work on collections really slot into the building.
I mean, again, it was a public library.
I think nobody really... So like, hi.
Hi.
So this is your makeshift?
Yeah, and back here.
And these are?
Yeah.
Okay.
So these are, this is part of the gay lesbian collections?
Yeah.
And the collections are here, not upstairs in that.
Well, the archival collections are here.
And right against the back wall are the gay and lesbian novels.
Over here.
Things that are a little more fragile are down here.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, I'm going to shoot a picture of that.
That's interesting.
That's very important.
We've gotten a lot of Jane Austen collections.
Would you say it's a research step?
Yes.
And it was intended to be.
And Tim was hired, we needed to hire a separate archivist to work on these if they were ever going to see the light of day.
Tim, what's your name?
Tim Wilson.
That's hard.
Well, Tim was first hired for nine months, and then it was extended to two years.
Although if we really want these collections to be made available to the public, they'll have to be a permanent position because... Sure.
Well, are you cataloging things?
Well, we call it processing, but it's basically going through box by box and arranging things or figuring out how they were arranged.
These are his archives.
These are his public documents.
They don't necessarily relate to the fact that... Is it a gay, lesbian archive?
I don't understand.
I know who Harvey Milk is.
I'm just wondering if these are his public papers.
And private.
These are public and private.
So they are pertinent to the overall scheme of the collection.
They could have been just part of the San Francisco history chapter.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, I do.
And a lot of our damn lesbian collections happen to overlap because San Francisco has such a full gay life and we're collecting in the area.
A lot of them could have come under the auspices of San Francisco history.
Which is great.
Randy Schultz's paper.
Yep.
But they happened to be in the gay and lesbian book because it was set up to be a separate book.
Well, of course, his book would be totally pertinent to the research materials for his book.
But it could be either still.
I mean, I would still want to collect it.
That, to me, would be a very important archive.
That's the kind of thing you'd travel to San Francisco to research with you.
Yeah.
So we get a lot of international researchers, national and international, on these collections.
What kinds of things drop people to your collection that they can't find elsewhere?
Well, at this point, where we are, that are open, are some of the collections from which we have on deposit from the Indian Ocean Historical Society.
And one of the most popular of those collections is the Lou Sullivan paper.
Lou Sullivan?
L-O-U?
L-O-U.
Uh-huh.
Falling hard too.